Jesus’ words
at Matthew 11:28
are very appropriate
considering everything
we go through
in this system of things:
“Come to me, all you who
are toiling and loaded down,
and I will refresh you.”
Yes, conventions
can be of refreshment to us,
giving us the boost we need.
But such refreshment
is also available
when the world around us
seems to be falling apart.
How does the organization
help our brothers and sisters
in times of national crisis?
We met two Witness couples
who personally experienced
two of the largest terrorist attacks
in recent years.
Not a day goes by
when we don’t think
about our son, Paulie.
There was horror and suffering,
things we don’t want to witness anymore.
September 11
was a very scary, terrifying day.
As for me,
when I really understood
what was happening, I got scared.
I didn’t know what to do.
I didn’t know what to think.
I felt helpless.
When the second tower fell,
Paulie was on the 110th floor
and everybody was shouting, crying.
I was praying to Jehovah
because I was heartbroken.
We live on Voltaire Boulevard;
it’s a broad avenue.
There is a concert hall called the Bataclan.
When the doors of the Bataclan are open,
we can hear everything that goes on inside.
That night, three men
entered the Bataclan concert hall,
and they started shooting into the crowd.
We immediately grabbed our “go bag.”
And then we sat in front of the sofa,
and we begged Jehovah for his holy spirit
so we could face the situation.
It was around 10:00 p.m.
when there was a news flash
that announced that there was an attack.
I was in shock when I heard the news,
and then I immediately thought
about our brothers and sisters.
I quickly got in contact
with the circuit overseer
in order to get some news
about our brothers and sisters,
to know how they were doing.
Then,
very early the next morning,
we set up an emergency committee
made up of several brothers
from the Service Department.
We decided to write a letter
and make other arrangements
to assist the friends who,
in one way or another,
were affected by this event.
In turn,
the circuit overseer
would make an effort
to rapidly get in touch
with the elders
who oversee
the affected territory.
One of our challenges, on a personal level,
was whether we would even be able
to encourage our brothers and sisters
because we had never experienced
such a terrible event.
We organized ourselves;
we paired up as elders
and headed off to do shepherding.
We started calling midmorning
on Tuesday.
We received a report back
from all the traveling overseers
by the end of Thursday.
And unfortunately,
we learned that 14
of our brothers and sisters
had lost their lives.
We knew that we needed
to encourage the families;
we knew that we needed
to shepherd them as soon as possible.
The elders immediately came.
We went over the book of Job,
and I just listened.
You know, I was just listening.
I’ve heard the same words before,
but it was different now.
The things that were being said
went straight to my heart.
A few days later, we were visited
by two brothers from Bethel.
It was very touching
that they came to see us
and that they
were concerned about us.
It shows us that Jehovah
was aware of how we felt that night.
Our brothers were there.
They were ready
to help one another out.
Then there was
so much empathy and love shown.
When we were ultimately granted
access to ground zero
and we started encountering
the first responders,
we let them know how much
we appreciated their hard work
and that they had a skill set
that we didn’t have.
But yet our skill set
was trying
to offer comfort to them.
We shared a scripture with them.
Immediately, we could tell
that that was something
that caused emotion
to rise up in them right away.
And they expressed
great appreciation for that.
It’s one of the beautiful things
about the Scriptures
—that they’re calming,
soothing, comforting.
And the Scriptures
did not let down the workers
that were there at ground zero either.
The visit of the brothers
from Bethel was really
a gift from Jehovah.
It showed his genuine interest in us.
It was really wonderful.
After the brothers visited us,
we felt so comforted,
so encouraged,
that we said to each other:
“We have to get back in the ministry
“and comfort people in the territory.
We have to console
our brothers and sisters as well.”
We can only thank and glorify Jehovah,
who really is a God of love.
I kind of felt
Jehovah’s hand just reaching out to me,
which I needed.
But I cannot wait till the day
that I’m totally refreshed.
Where I can see,
I can actually see,
Paulie.
I can see him just coming back
into our lives,
and I want to embrace him so much.
After something like this,
we are not the same.
But
with the help of the organization
—the brothers—
Jehovah is there for us.
So that—
That is refreshing.
And I thank Jehovah a lot
for what he wants to do for me
and also for the millions of people
that feel the same way.